---
tags:
  - 📅-event
Date: 2025-05-19
Type: "[CC](Coordinating%20Committee.md)"
aliases:
  - 2025 CC Retreat Day 2
---
# Read the [COGS Constitution](../News/COGS%20Constitution.md):
- Amendments:
	- Stewards section - Reword stewards' election. Have to get 10 signatures from [Bargaining Unit Members](../Members/Bargaining%20Unit%20Members.md).
	- Stewards section - Department stewards
		- Debated whether we wanted them. 
		- Election - 10 signatures from [Bargaining Unit Members](../Members/Bargaining%20Unit%20Members.md) or 50% of your department, whichever is less. 
		- Annual election

# Website Proposal:
- Change what is on the current COGS website now.
- Change formatting (like make the FAQs clearer, etc.)
- Need to figure out the e-commerce. Want to make it legitimate. 
	- This was the biggest hang-up. 
- [ ] #text-update Put many of these files on the Google Drive.

# Social Media Etiquette:
- [ ] #text-update Make a page about policy around taking pictures and consent. For crowds, maybe a general face blurring policy. At the beginning of each event, it is stated that pictures will be taken and ask for people's consent up top.
- Bring this up at GMM?
- [Code of conduct](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TOMddbWO7xw0DluBNs5Gf85L0tb4VBGEZ01VWJaN8Qo/edit?tab=t.0)
- [ ] #text-update Audit of the Google drive every year.
- How to have an accessible chat that is also safe. 

# Committee Updates:
- Political Action Committee: Monthly meetings. Research candidates but don't endorse them. 
- Press and Publicity: Make [COGnition](../../../News/COGnition.md) quarterly. 
- Labor Solidarity: Monthly meeting (reading group or active outreach) for labor education. 
- [ ] #text-update Translate COGS documents into different languages? Mandarian, Spanish, French.
